I'm asking them because from
your point of view, maybe a little bit different
from somebody who actually fought or from one of
the administrators or higher officials who
actually implemented the war. In your opinion,
why were we in
Vietnam? I think we were there because of the
perceived notion of the dominance theory. I think
that policy at that time was we've got to stop the
spread of communism. And we talked about
supporting our democratic allies in Vietnam. I
wasn't too impressed with our democratic allies
in Vietnam. They were a sleazy bunch to tell you the
truth. But it was a place where At that time, at any
rate, the country thought, or the government
thought, you know, if this goes down, it's going to
be Cambodia, and then it's going to be Thailand,
and then it's going to be Singapore, and then right
down the line, I think that's what it would be. And
do you think we were justified in being
there? Yeah. And why do you think we lost? Because
we didn't decide to kick their butts.
We elected to fight their kind of war. They were
superb guerrilla warriors. They really were. You
can read the history of it if you didn't know it. And
you can also read the history of the war. We'd gone
north and taken care of them.
And we would have been the villains in the eyes of
the world for about six months. And everybody
would have forgotten it. And everybody would have
been home. There's been a terrible carnage among
Vietnamese civilians, particularly in the,
well, particularly in the north, but every place.
They've taken a lot of American lives and
shortened the war and would not have destroyed
that country. And, you know, if we were going to go
to war, we should have gone to war.
And if we weren't going to war, we should have
stayed home. Let the little brown devils fight
themselves. You know, whatever they want to do is
fine. You can't justify some of the things. I mean,
how can you justify that? You can't justify
killing some babies like that. But if you've been
there, you can understand how it happened.
Because, you know, if a cute little
eight-year-old kid comes into your dining hall
and puts the box down that's got 15, 20 pounds of TNT
in it and kills all of you, The only person I ever
know that shot at me, you know, I was in a lot of
places where I got rockets and mortars and stuff
like that, and they scared the hell out of me. But
that was very impersonal. Nobody was trying to
kill me. They were trying to shoot up the place
where I was. But I was down in the Delta one time, and
I flew into a... an army air base down there you
imagine the air force couldn't get me a ride to an
air base i had to ride with the army to an army base
and then they came from the air force base to pick me
up the jeep to take me up to the air force base and we
were driving through this marshland and there was
a pagoda buddhist i guess out in the middle of this
field very interesting looking thing i called
other american fighting men, the first thing I got
when I went to war was a Japanese camera. And so I got
the driver to stop so I could get a picture of the
thing and put it on the telephoto lens so I could
really see it good. And the first thing I saw was a
kid, couldn't have been over 12, with a rifle
pointed right back at my camera. And it bounced
around with a round of ammunition off the front of
that jeep. And I suggested to the sergeant, maybe
we should go on. All the pictures I needed to be able
to go to.
But that was very personal. And I was a little kid.
There's no way to justify that. But you can
understand how it happened. Women and children
got killed. Women and children were killing
people. And the ones that got killed may not have
been the ones that were killing people, but you can
understand why he got
paranoid about that. What, uh, what rank were you
as a doctor? Major. Major.
Uh, that's all the questions I have prepared. Is
there anything you can think of that might be
helpful to my study? Any experiences or anything
you want? Check it out, I can't think of anything
really. I think if I can find that booklet, I'll get
it to you and I think there might be some of the stats
that you asked about in there. And Jack Walker will
be a good source for you. Jack was Peru military.
He was also an internist, so some of the questions
you asked about
Vietnam-related diseases as opposed to
injuries, I think I'm sure he could give you a lot
better answers than I could.
Okay. They've been very helpful. Well, I hope so.
Yeah, it's gotten a lot of valuable information.
And I will... They are communists.
You are a
student.
Sois de Argentina.
Soy capitalista.
Now correct your answers. You should have marked
the following responses. One, nosotros. Two,
usted, él, ella. Three, ustedes, ellos, ellas.
Four, tú. Five, vosotros. Six, yo.
Now ask the following people if they are from the
Spanish-speaking countries indicated. Use tú
with first names. Escuche los ejemplos. Listen to
the examples. Señor, Colombia. ¿Usted es de
Colombia, señor? Miguel, Bolivia. ¿Tú eres de
Bolivia, Miguel? Ahora empiece. Now begin.
Señor, Colombia.
¿Usted es de Colombia, señor? Miguel, Bolivia.
¿Tú eres de Bolivia, Miguel? Juanita, Puerto
Rico.
¿Tú eres de Puerto Rico, Juanita? Señora, México.
¿Ustedes de México, señora? Ustedes. Uruguay.
¿Ustedes
son de Uruguay? Turn to your lab manual for
activities 3, 4, and 5. Comprensión oral. You will
hear a question followed by two answers, A and B. In
your lab manual, activity 3, check the most
appropriate answer for each question. Escuche el
ejemplo. Listen to the example. ¿Es estudiante o
profesora Alicia? A. Es estudiante. B. Es de
Paraguay. You mark A. Ahora empiece. Now begin.
Uno. ¿Qué tal? ¿Cómo estás? A. Estudio en la
Universidad de Salamanca. B. Bien, gracias. ¿Y
tú?
Dos, ¿estudia usted ciencias políticas? A, no,
estudio lenguas modernas. B, no, estoy bien,
gracias.
Tres, ¿es usted Elisa? A, no, soy Susana. B, no es
Elisa.
Cuatro, ¿son ustedes profesores? A, sí, ustedes
son profesores. B, sí, somos profesores.
Cinco, ¿qué día es hoy? A, hoy es martes. B, sí,
estudio hoy.
Seis, ¿cómo está usted? A. Muy bien, gracias. B.
Soy de Panamá.
7. ¿Qué lenguas modernas estudia usted? A.
Estudio ciencias políticas. B. Estudio inglés y
español. 8.
¿Es usted de Honduras? A. No, soy de Costa Rica. B.
Sí, usted es de Honduras.
Now correct your answers. You should have marked A
for numbers 2, 3, 5, 6,
and 8. And B for numbers 1, 4, and 7.
You will hear a brief conversation between two
people said twice. You will probably not be able to
understand every word in the conversation.
Listen carefully for the main ideas and facts.
Then read the series of either-or statements in
your lab manual. Place a check mark by statement A
or B that seems to best correspond to the
conversation. Don't be afraid to guess the
meaning of the cognates. Ahora escuche. Now
listen. En el aeropuerto. Yo soy el inspector de
inmigración. Tengo algunas preguntas. Muy bien,
estoy a su disposición. ¿Es usted de Colombia? No,
soy de Venezuela. ¿Cómo se llama usted? Me llamo
Clara García. ¿Tiene usted más de 100 dólares? No,
señor. Muy bien, pase usted. Now listen again. Yo
soy el inspector de inmigración. Tengo algunas
preguntas. Muy bien, estoy a su disposición. ¿Es
usted de Colombia? No, soy de Venezuela. ¿Cómo se
llama usted? Me llamo Clara García. ¿Tiene usted
más de 100 dólares? No, señor. Muy bien, pase
usted. Now stop the tape and complete Activity 4 in
your lab manual. Now correct your answers. You
should have marked A for one and B for two, three,
four, and five. Dictado. You will hear a paragraph
read twice. In your lab manual, complete the
paragraph by writing in the missing words. Ahora
escuche. Now listen. Yo soy Ernesto Sánchez.
Estudio en una universidad de los Estados Unidos,
pero soy de Chile. Estudio lenguas modernas,
inglés y español. Practico los lunes, miércoles y
viernes en el laboratorio. Mi padre es profesor de
historia y mi madre es médica del hospital de la
universidad. As you listen to the paragraph
again, write the missing words in your lab manual.
Activity five. Yo soy Ernesto Sánchez.
Estudio en una universidad de los Estados Unidos,
pero soy de Chile.
Estudio lenguas modernas, inglés y español.
I practice on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays in
the laboratory.
My father is a history teacher.
Y mi madre es médica del hospital de la
universidad.
Fin de la lección uno. End of lesson one. End of tape
one, side B.
guitar
solo Name your price A ticket to Paris
But there is no easy way around it
Such
a lonely, lonely,
lonely world. People turn their heads and walk
on by. Tell me, is it worth just another try? Light
up the world. Shine on me. Love is the answer. Let it
shine. Shine on us all. Set us free. Love is
What are the
chances? Ask the
man in your heart for the answer And when you feel
afraid
When you've lost your way
And when you're by
And I was dreaming of the night Would it turn out
right? How to tell
you, girl I wanna build my world around
you Tell you that it's true
We
yelled and screamed for more. And I wanted you.
Night and day. Made us dance across the room. It
ended all too soon.
Don't
be late. I cannot wait. I said to myself when we're
old. We'll go dancing in the dark. Walking through
The
memories come alive.
hurry don't be late i cannot wait i said to myself
when we're old we'll go dancing in the dark walking
through the park and reminiscing
Packing up the dreams God planted
in the firm soil of you.
Can't believe the hopes he's granted.
Means a chapter in your life is through. We'll keep
you close as always.
If only you'd see you've gone. Cause our hearts in
big and small ways
will keep the love that keeps us
And
friends are
friends forever If the Lord's the Lord of them And a
friend will not say never Cause the welcome will
not end Though it's hard to let you go In the
Father's hands we know That a lifetime's not
too long To live as friends
With the faith and love God's given,
springing
from the hope we know, we will pray the joy
you'll live in is the strength that now you show.
We'll
keep you close as always. You won't even see you go.
Cause our hearts have been big in small ways. We'll
keep the love that keeps us strong.
And
a
friend will not say never Cause the welcome will
not end Though it's hard to let you go In the
Father's hands we know That a lifetime's not too
long To live as friends
If
the Lord's the Lord of them And a friend will not say
never Cause the welcome will not end Though it's
hard to let you go In the Father's hands we know That
a lifetime's not too long To live
as friends No, a lifetime's not too long
To leave this place.